
Process Creation
================

Sysmon will log **EventID 1** for the creation of any new process when
it registers with the kernel.

Sysmon will generate a ProcessGuid and LogonGuid with the information it
obtains and it will hash the process main image. The command line of the
process will be parsed and logged in to eventlog. When storage permits a
common practice is to log all processes and to filter out common day to
day processes for Windows and Applications after profiling usage.

The fields on a process creation event are:

* **ProcessGuid** -- Unique process GUID generated by Sysmon.

* **ProcessId** -- Process ID represented as a integer number.

* **Image** -- Full path of the executable image that was executed.

* **FileVersion** -- File version filed in the image metadata.

* **Description** -- Description field in the image metadata.

* **Product** -- Product field in the image metadata.

* **Company** - Company field in the image metadata.

* **OriginalFileName** -- Original image name if renamed.

* **CommandLine** -- Command line that executed the image.

* **CurrentDirectory** -- Directory under which the image was
    executed.

* **User** - Name of the account who created the process (child) . It
    usually contains domain name and user name

* **LogonGuid** - Logon GUID of the user who created the new process.

* **LogonId** -Login ID of the user who created the new process.

* **TerminalSessionId** - ID of the session the user belongs to

* **IntegrityLevel** - Integrity label assigned to a process

* **Hashes** - Full hash of the file with the algorithms in the
    HashType field.

* **ParentProcessGuid** - ProcessGUID of the process that
    spawned/created the main process (child)

* **ParentProcessId** - Process ID of the process that spawned/created
    the main process (child)

* **ParentImage -** File path that spawned/created the main process.

* **ParentCommandLine -** Arguments which were passed to the
    executable associated with the parent process

Sysmon offers an advantage over the regular process logging since it not
only pulls the same information as with **EventID** **4688** but it also
pulls information from the PE header, hashes the images for correlation
with IOC databases like Virus Total and it also provides unique fields
when querying for events.